We use cookies to improve your experience on our websites and for advertising.
[Privacy Statement](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=845480)

[Manage cookies](https://careers.microsoft.com/us/en/cookiesettings) Accept
all

This site uses cookies for analytics, personalized content and ads. By
continuing to browse this site, you agree to this use.[ Learn
more](https://privacy.microsoft.com/en-US/privacystatement) .

LanguageAustria-GERBelgium-DUTBelgium-FREBulgaria-BULCroatia-CROCyprus-
ENGCyprus-GRECzech Republic-CZDenmark-DANEstonia-ESTFinland-FINFrance-
FREGermany-GERGreece-GREHungary-HUNIceland-ICEIreland-ENGIreland-GAEItaly-
ITLatvia-LVLiechtenstein-GERLithuania-LTLuxembourg-FRELuxembourg-GERMalta-
MTNetherlands-NLNorway-NBPoland-PLPortugal-PTRomania-ROSlovakia-SKSlovenia-
SLSpain-ESSweden-SESwitzerland-FRESwitzerland-GERSwitzerland-ITUnited Kingdom-
ENG __

__

Skip to main content

  * [ ![Microsoft](https://prodcmscdn.azureedge.net/careerconnectresources/p/MICRUS/en_us/desktop/assets/images/microsoft-gray.png) ](https://www.microsoft.com)

  * Toggle menu 

  * [Microsoft 365](https://www.microsoft.com/microsoft-365)
  * [Office](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-365/microsoft-office)
  * [Windows](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/)
  * [Surface](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/surface)
  * [Xbox](https://www.xbox.com/)
  * [Deals](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/store/b/sale?icid=gm_nav_L0_salepage)
  * [Support](https://support.microsoft.com/en-us)

  * Careers __ [ Careers](/)
  * __

  * [ Home](/)
  * Professionals __
    * [ Home](/professionals/us/en)
    * [ Locations](/professionals/us/en/locations)
    * [ Professions](/professionals/us/en/professions)
    * [ US Military & Veterans ](/professionals/us/en/military)
  * [ Students and graduates ](/students/us/en)
  * Life at Microsoft __
    * [ Benefits](/us/en/benefits)
    * [ Culture](/us/en/culture)
    * [ Diversity and inclusion](/us/en/diversityandinclusion)
    * [ Microsoft Life](https://news.microsoft.com/life/)

__

Sign in

[ __ Saved jobs 0 ](/us/en/savedjobs)

-

#  This job has expired. Please try your search again.

##  Explore your future

We give you the tools you need to discover your perfect job match, and the
freedom and support to take your career to the next level.

[

Administration

](https://careers.microsoft.com/us/en/search-results?category=Administration)

[

Business Development & Strategy

](https://careers.microsoft.com/us/en/c/business-development-strategy-jobs)

[

Business Development & Ventures

](https://careers.microsoft.com/us/en/search-
results?category=Business%20Development%20%26%20Ventures)

[

Business Operations

](https://careers.microsoft.com/us/en/search-
results?category=Business%20Operations)

[

Business Programs & Operations

](https://careers.microsoft.com/us/en/c/business-programs-operations-jobs)

[

Communications

](https://careers.microsoft.com/us/en/search-results?category=Communications)

[

Consulting Services

](https://careers.microsoft.com/us/en/search-
results?category=Consulting%20Services)

[

Corporate Technology Support

](https://careers.microsoft.com/us/en/search-
results?category=Corporate%20Technology%20Support)

[

Customer Success

](https://careers.microsoft.com/us/en/c/customer-success-jobs)

[

Data Center

](https://careers.microsoft.com/us/en/c/data-center-jobs)

[

Design & Creative

](https://careers.microsoft.com/us/en/search-
results?category=Design%20%26%20Creative)

[

Digital Sales and Solutions

](https://careers.microsoft.com/us/en/search-
results?category=Digital%20Sales%20and%20Solutions)

[

Engineering

](https://careers.microsoft.com/us/en/c/engineering-jobs)

[

Evangelism

](https://careers.microsoft.com/us/en/c/evangelism-jobs)

[

Finance

](https://careers.microsoft.com/us/en/c/finance-jobs)

[

General Management

](https://careers.microsoft.com/us/en/search-
results?category=General%20Management)

[

Hardware Engineering

](https://careers.microsoft.com/us/en/c/hardware-engineering-jobs)

[

Hardware Manufacturing Engineering

](https://careers.microsoft.com/us/en/c/hardware-manufacturing-engineering-
jobs)

[

Human Resources

](https://careers.microsoft.com/us/en/c/human-resources-jobs)

[

IT Operations

](https://careers.microsoft.com/us/en/c/it-operations-jobs)

[

Inside Sales and Solutions

](https://careers.microsoft.com/us/en/search-
results?category=Inside%20Sales%20and%20Solutions)

[

Legal & Corporate Affairs

](https://careers.microsoft.com/us/en/c/legal-corporate-affairs-jobs)

[

Manufacturing

](https://careers.microsoft.com/us/en/search-results?category=Manufacturing)

[

Marketing

](https://careers.microsoft.com/us/en/c/marketing-jobs)

[

Program Management

](https://careers.microsoft.com/us/en/search-
results?category=Program%20Management)

[

Quantum Computing

](https://careers.microsoft.com/us/en/search-
results?category=Quantum%20Computing)

[

Real Estate, Facilities, & Construction

](https://careers.microsoft.com/us/en/search-
results?category=Real%20Estate%2C%20Facilities%2C%20%26%20Construction)

[

Research

](https://careers.microsoft.com/us/en/c/research-jobs)

[

Retail

](https://careers.microsoft.com/us/en/c/retail-jobs)

[

Sales

](https://careers.microsoft.com/us/en/c/sales-jobs)

[

Sales Enablement

](https://careers.microsoft.com/us/en/search-
results?category=Sales%20Enablement)

[

Security Engineering

](https://careers.microsoft.com/us/en/search-
results?category=Security%20Engineering)

[

Services

](https://careers.microsoft.com/us/en/c/services-jobs)

[

Software Engineering

](https://careers.microsoft.com/us/en/search-
results?category=Software%20Engineering)

[

Supply Chain

](https://careers.microsoft.com/us/en/search-results?category=Supply%20Chain)

[

Supply Chain & Operations Management

](https://careers.microsoft.com/us/en/c/supply-chain-operations-management-
jobs)

[

Technical Sales

](https://careers.microsoft.com/us/en/c/technical-sales-jobs)

[

Technical Support

](https://careers.microsoft.com/us/en/search-
results?category=Technical%20Support)

[

Technology Sales

](https://careers.microsoft.com/us/en/search-
results?category=Technology%20Sales)

# B-BBEE Executive

Johannesburg, Gauteng, South Africa

  * Johannesburg, Gauteng, South Africa

[ Apply now  __ ](javascript:void\(0\))

__ Save  save B-BBEE Executive to job cart

  * [ __](javascript:void\(0\))
  * [ __](javascript:void\(0\))
  * [ __](javascript:void\(0\))
  * [ __](javascript:void\(0\))

  * Job number  1257279
  * Date posted  Feb 5, 2022
  * Travel  None
  * Profession  Business Programs & Operations
  * Role type  Individual Contributor
  * Employment type  Full-Time

**Overview**

South Africa is one of 7 subsidiaries of the Middle East and Africa region.
Microsoft has been present in the region for many years and is a key enabler
of the IT market growth and through Microsoft’s partnership with Government,
Enterprise, small and medium as well as well at the development of a strong
partner eco-system has maintained a Level 1 (Broad-Based Black Economic
Empowerment) B-BBEE status.



Microsoft South Africa is seeking a dynamic B-BBEE Executive to ensure that
our B-BBEE and Equity Equivalence Investment Program (EEIP) and related
programs, initiatives, partnerships, and processes are aligned and in harmony
with the company’s strategy and the national priorities of South Africa. This
is a Transformational Leadership role that combines strong business leadership
with deep B-BBEE experience.



 **Purpose**

The role is responsible for developing and delivering the B-BBEE strategy for
the company, with a key focus on providing strategic leadership and delivery
of results under enterprise development as well as supplier, partner
development, Equity Equivalence Investment Program (EEIP) and people
management. The individual will also need to pull together and oversee the
company’s refreshed employment equity compliance roadmap.

##  Responsibilities

**Key performance areas**

In addition to having a strong understanding of the B-BBEE codes, the
successful incumbent must deliver on the following key performance areas:

**Drive the B-BBEE agenda**

  * Champion for the B-BBEE strategy and for build on the improving the transformation record / profile of Microsoft South Africa.
  * Work with the Department of Trade, Industry and Competition to design, implement and manage the national EEIP program.
  * Create the clarity needed within the team through a well-defined strategy and execution plan aligned to the company’s transformational goals.
  * Responsible for the development, implementation, monitoring and reporting of the B-BBEE strategy. 
  * Acquire stakeholder buy-in for B-BBEE projects. 
  * Represent the company with various industry bodies.. E.g., ITA and SACF. 
  * Participate at company and relevant external engagements as identified. 
  * Ensure that relevant functions are delivering on Employment Equity (EE) as required by the Employment Equity Act. 
  * Identify transformation risks and barriers facing the company and propose solutions to any risks and/or challenges at company level.
  * Develop and maintain the required infrastructure to ensure the existence of an active and functional EE Forum and B-BBEE Steering Committee and to manage the relevant B-BBEE stakeholders to support the company's compliance with its B-BBEE Strategy. 

**Build the B-BBEE scorecard**

  * Continued development and management of Microsoft South Africa’s transformation scorecard. 
  * Develop and implement a plan to achieve the maximum possible points under the B-BBEE scorecard, ensuing alignment with requirements of the relevant legislation.
  * Establish and manage the internal B-BBEE processes and initiatives.
  * Provide guidance and direction to stakeholders on matters relating to transformation, procurement, and B- BBEE regulation. 
  * Co-ordinate and guide the company’s approach to procurement in line with the transformation objectives and the procurement policy.
  * In collaboration with the Procurement Manager, implement strategic initiatives aimed at improving B- BBEE scoring, Supplier Development, Enterprise Development, and the measurement and regular monitoring thereof.
  * Manage the B-BBEE preparation and auditing process for accreditation by the rating agency and manage annual B-BBEE verification process.
  * Ensure detailed records and supporting evidence are maintained by various functions e.g., procurement, HR, legal practice teams as required to demonstrate actions around the business B-BBEE activities e.g., list of all businesses that are engaged in the year, BEE status, ownership status, spend and type of contributions made.
  * Present concise B-BBEE actions and agenda to the Leadership Team and internal stakeholders. Present changes where necessary. 
  * Drive compliance and ensure that the B-BBEE scorecard is monitored and records that relate to the B- BBEE requirements are updated to ensure actions are executed. 
  * Improve the B-BBEE scoring achieved, assign targets to relevant areas and BUs.
  * Monitoring performance against set targets.
  * Collaborate with stakeholders to provide direction in line with B-BBEE and implementation guidelines.
  * Review all relevant policies and operating procedures to ensure alignment to current B-BBEE Codes.
  * Build awareness with internal stakeholders on changes that may occur within regulations. 

##  Qualifications

  * 8+ years B-BBEE Transformation Experience
    * Bachelor's Degree in Business Administration, or related field AND 5+ years related experience
  * B-BEEE audit experience with an accredited verification agency will be an advantage
  * Be fluent in underlying legislation particularly the B-BBEE Codes of Good Practice, the BEE Act, Employment Equity Act, Skills Development Act. Understanding and knowledge of King IV, Companies Act, Role of SEC and other supporting legislation.
  * Financial understanding for the purposes of understanding the B-BBEE scorecard.
  * 5+ years’ experience with planning, budgeting, and other project management activities will be an advantage.
  * 2+ years people management experience.
  * Relevant B-BEEE short course qualifications would be preferable.
  * Strong Leadership, communication, influencing and business Partnership capabilities.
  * Demonstrated people management capabilities managing remote, diverse, multi-cultural teams.
  * Ability to work at multiple altitudes, from operational details to strategy definition.

Microsoft is an equal opportunity employer. All qualified applicants will
receive consideration for employment without regard to age, ancestry, color,
family or medical care leave, gender identity or expression, genetic
information, marital status, medical condition, national origin, physical or
mental disability, political affiliation, protected veteran status, race,
religion, sex (including pregnancy), sexual orientation, or any other
characteristic protected by applicable laws, regulations and ordinances.



Benefits/perks listed below may vary depending on the nature of your
employment with Microsoft and the country where you work.

##  Benefits and Perks

  * __ Industry leading healthcare
  * __ Savings and investments
  * __ Giving programs
  * __ Educational resources
  * __ Maternity and paternity leave
  * __ Opportunities to network and connect
  * __ Discounts on products and services
  * __ Generous time away

##  Resources

  * [ Accessibility support  __ ](/us/en/accommodationrequest)
  * [ Frequently asked questions  __ ](/us/en/faq)
  * [ Interview tips  __ ](/us/en/interviewtips)
  * [ Search more jobs  __ ](https://careers.microsoft.com/us/en/search-results)

[ Apply now  __ ](javascript:void\(0\))

__ Save  save B-BBEE Executive to job cart

  * [ __](javascript:void\(0\))
  * [ __](javascript:void\(0\))
  * [ __](javascript:void\(0\))
  * [ __](javascript:void\(0\))

###  Life at Microsoft

  * [ ![Microsoft employee sitting in chair](https://prodcmscdn.azureedge.net/careerconnectresources/p/MICRUS/en_us/desktop/assets/images/life_at_microsoft_img1.png) Culture  We’re working together to build strong communities inside and outside the workplace.  ](https://careers.microsoft.com/us/en/culture)
  * [ ![Group of people celebrating](https://prodcmscdn.azureedge.net/careerconnectresources/p/MICRUS/en_us/desktop/assets/images/life_at_microsoft_img2.png) Benefits  Microsoft sees the whole person and looks to support your well-being on every level.  ](https://careers.microsoft.com/us/en/benefits)
  * [ ![Chris Schlechty of Microsoft](https://prodcmscdn.azureedge.net/careerconnectresources/p/MICRUS/en_us/desktop/assets/images/life_at_microsoft_img3.png) Diversity and inclusion  We value individuality. The experiences that have shaped your world view can help us shape ours.  ](https://careers.microsoft.com/us/en/diversityandinclusion)

##  Email this Job

close

Share this job opportunity with:

Name  (required)

Email  (required)

Notes:

Cancel  Send

  * [__ FAQ __](/us/en/faq)
  * [__ Interview tips __](/us/en/interviewtips)
  * [__ Accessibility request __](/us/en/accommodationrequest)
  * [__ Support __](/us/en/support)
  * [__ Legal policies __](/us/en/legalpolicies)
  * [__ Microsoft Data Privacy Notice (DPN) __](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkId=518021)
  * [![](https://prodcmscdn.azureedge.net/careerconnectresources/p/MICRUS/en_us/desktop/assets/images/file_footer.png) Labor Condition Application Postings  __](https://aka.ms/LCANotices)

##  Follow Microsoft Careers

  * [ ![LinkedIn logo](https://prodcmscdn.azureedge.net/careerconnectresources/p/MICRUS/en_us/desktop/assets/images/linkedin-icon.svg) ](https://www.linkedin.com/company/microsoft)
  * [ ![Twitter logo](https://prodcmscdn.azureedge.net/careerconnectresources/p/MICRUS/en_us/desktop/assets/images/twitter-icon.svg) ](https://twitter.com/microsoft)
  * [ ![Facebook logo](https://prodcmscdn.azureedge.net/careerconnectresources/p/MICRUS/en_us/desktop/assets/images/fb-icon.svg) ](https://www.facebook.com/Microsoft)
  * [ ![Instagram logo](https://prodcmscdn.azureedge.net/careerconnectresources/p/MICRUS/en_us/desktop/assets/images/Instagram-icon.svg) ](https://www.instagram.com/microsoft)

  * [ ![ icon](https://prodcmscdn.azureedge.net/careerconnectresources/p/MICRUS/en_us/desktop/assets/images/en_us.png) EN ](javascript:void\(0\))
  * [ ![ icon](https://prodcmscdn.azureedge.net/careerconnectresources/p/MICRUS/en_us/desktop/assets/images/fr_ca.png) FR ](javascript:void\(0\))

##  What's new

What's new  __

  * [Surface Go 2](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/p/surface-go-2/8PT3S2VJMDR6)
  * [Surface Book 3](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/p/surface-book-3/8XBW9G3Z71F1)
  * [Microsoft 365](https://www.microsoft.com/microsoft-365)
  * [Surface Pro X](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/p/surface-pro-x/8vdnrp2m6hhc)
  * [Windows 10 apps](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/windows-10-apps)

##  Microsoft Store

Microsoft Store __

  * [Account profile](https://account.microsoft.com/)
  * [Download Center](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download)
  * [ Microsoft Store support](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?LinkID=824761&clcid=0x409)
  * [Returns](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?LinkID=824764&clcid=0x409)
  * [Order tracking](https://account.microsoft.com/orders)
  * [Store locations](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/store/locations/find-a-store?icid=en-us_UF_FAS)
  * [Virtual workshops and training](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/store/workshops-training-and-events?icid=bm_uhf_footer_virtual-learning-azure_692020)
  * [Microsoft Store Promise](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/store/b/why-microsoft-store?icid=footer_why-msft-store_7102020)

##  Education

Education __

  * [Microsoft in education](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/education)
  * [Office for students](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/education/products/office/default.aspx)
  * [Office 365 for schools](https://products.office.com/en-us/academic/compare-office-365-education-plans)
  * [Deals for students & parents](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/store/b/education?icid=CNavfooter_Studentsandeducation)
  * [Microsoft Azure in education](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/community/education/)

##  Enterprise

Enterprise __

  * [Azure](https://azure.microsoft.com/)
  * [AppSource](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=808093)
  * [Automotive](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/enterprise/automotive)
  * [Government](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/enterprise/government)
  * [Healthcare](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/enterprise/health)
  * [Manufacturing](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/enterprise/manufacturing)
  * [Financial services](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/enterprise/finance/banking-capital-markets)
  * [Retail](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/enterprise/retail-consumer-goods)

##  Developer

Developer __

  * [Microsoft Visual Studio](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/)
  * [Windows Dev Center](https://developer.microsoft.com/en-us/windows)
  * [Developer Network](https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us)
  * [TechNet](https://technet.microsoft.com/en-us)
  * [Microsoft developer program](https://developer.microsoft.com/en-us/store/register)
  * [Channel 9](https://channel9.msdn.com/)
  * [Office Dev Center](https://developer.microsoft.com/en-us/office)
  * [Microsoft Garage](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/garage/)

##  Company

Company __

  * [Careers](/)
  * [About Microsoft](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/about)
  * [Company news](https://news.microsoft.com/)
  * [Privacy at Microsoft](https://privacy.microsoft.com/en-us)
  * [Investors](https://www.microsoft.com/investor/default.aspx)
  * [Diversity and inclusion](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/diversity/)
  * [Accessibility](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/accessibility)
  * [Security](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/security/default.aspx)

  * This site is hosted for Microsoft by Phenom People 

  * [Sitemap](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/sitemap1.aspx)
  * [Contact Microsoft](https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/contactus/)
  * [Privacy](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkId=521839)
  * [Manage cookies](/us/en/cookiesettings)
  * [Terms of use](https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=206977)
  * [Trademarks](https://www.microsoft.com/trademarks)
  * [Safety & eco](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/devices/safety-and-eco)
  * [About our ads](https://choice.microsoft.com)
  * © Microsoft 2021

d513f9c070f7446fb7eefa108141a2b9

